
Python_202004 | Final Exam | Sep 28, 2020

INSTRUCTIONS:

Work on as many problems as you can from the list below. Note, the full
points add up to more than 100!

Please don't copy paste the answer from the web or take help from anyone else
(friends or parents) for any problem. I'll be asking questions on your work
and if you aren't able to explain your logic or the steps involved, you'll be
awarded zero for the entire problem.

Even if you can't write the whole program explain the logic or the steps in
English and propose simple Python code to carry out some of the steps.

Don't get hung up on one single problem, attempt all the problems first and
then go back to the diffcult ones.

If you write your answer on paper, ask your parents to take picture of the pages
and email them to me as attachments.

If you write your answer in a file, please email me the file as an attachment.

Any answer emailed to me after 10 minutes of the end of the exam will be not
be accepted.

PROBLEMS:

1. 10 points | Let's define a Python string: str = 'Awesome'. How can we get
the two words, 'Awe' and 'some' from str?

2. 20 points | Solve the following problem two ways: using for loop and 
using list comprehension. Create a list of multiples of 3 between 1 and 25.

3. 30 points | Download the file tolls.txt from the Github website. It looks
like the following:

ABC123 15
XYZ456 5
ABC123 10
ABC123 5
XYZ456 15

Each line has a license plate number (of cars) followed by the toll it paid.
Note, the same car may pay toll multiple times since it may take multiple
highways. Read the file into a dictionary of lists. Then print the unique
license plate number followed by total toll paid like so:

ABC123 30
XYZ456 20

4. 40 points | Write two classes FoodItem and ShoppingCart.

The FoodItem class should have the following members and methods: name, price,
describe(). The describe() method print the name and price of the food item.

The ShoppingCart should have the following members and methods: food_items (a
dictionary), add_to_cart(food_item, quantity) and show(). The add_to_cart method
should add the given food_item in the given quantity to food_items. The show
method should show all the food items in the cart and their quantities. 


5. 20 points | Write a function change_sentence(sentence, add_word, position)
that inserts 'add_word' after the word at the 'position' of 'sentence'. For
example:

change_sentence('NYC is a city', 'big', 2)

should return

'NYC is a big city'

